# Randomizer

Randomizer is a Java application designed to generate synthetic data for academic research purposes.  
It was created to assist in building datasets quickly, especially for simulations and data analysis scenarios.

The tool allows users to customize multiple parameters and automatically generates structured data with realistic attributes.

---

## Features

- Generate customizable datasets
- Define:
  - Number of columns (variables)
  - Number of rows (samples)
  - Minimum and maximum values for random numbers
- Automatically generates:
  - Random ages (between a fixed 18 and a defined maximum)
  - Random salaries (between a fixed minimum wage and a defined maximum)
  - Random IP addresses
  - Random dates (within the last 365 days)
  - Random times (any hour of the day)
- Saves to a file of choice, PDF or CSV.

---

## How It Works

When you run the application:

1. A graphical interface opens
2. You input:
   - Number of columns
   - Number of rows
   - Minimum and maximum random values
   - Maximum age
   - Maximum salary
3. The application generates a dataset based on your inputs and saves to PDF or CSV

---

## Requirements

- Java JDK 17 or higher installed

Check your version with:

```bash
java -version
```

---

## Project Structure

src/ → Source code (Java files)  
out/ → Compiled classes (manual build)  
build/ → Compiled classes (NetBeans)  
dist/ → Generated JAR files (NetBeans)  
nbproject/ → NetBeans configuration files  
build.xml → Build script used by NetBeans (Apache Ant)  
manifest.mf → JAR metadata (defines main class)  
 

### Notes

- Check the .gitignore file
- The `out/` folder is generated when building the project manually via terminal.
- The `build/` and `dist/` folders are generated by NetBeans.
- The `nbproject/` folder and `build.xml` are used internally by NetBeans and can be ignored if building via terminal.
- The `manifest.mf` file defines the entry point of the application when running the `.jar`.


---

## Build

If you are using a terminal, go to the root and:

```bash
dir /s /b src\*.java > sources.txt
javac -d out @sources.txt
jar cfe Randomizer.jar randomizer.Randomizer -C out .
java -jar Randomizer.jar
```

> randomizer.Randomizer is the main class

If you are using an IDE like NetBeans or IntelliJ, you can build the `.jar` directly through the interface.

---

## Run

After building the `.jar`, run:

```bash
java -jar Randomizer.jar
```

---

## Example Use Case

This application is useful for:

- Academic research simulations
- Testing data pipelines
- Practicing data analysis
- Generating mock datasets for development

---

## Author

Developed as a personal project to support academic research.

---

## License

This project is open-source and available under the MIT License.